[Music]
here are 10 things you should never say
to teens being a parent is no easy task
especially when your kids are teens
that's when it seems like you're always
butting heads with them we all know that
words can cut deeper than a knife which
is why knowing how to communicate with
your kids is key
so what phrases are an absolute no-no
keep watching to find out but before we
start don't forget to subscribe to our
Channel and turn on notifications so you
won't miss any of our new videos
counting down from number 10 you're OK
if your teen is upset about something
whether it's a crush that won't notice
them or a fight with their best friend
you shouldn't just tell them that
they're okay according to dr. Jenn maiya
a psychotherapist and author of the A to
Z guide to raising happy confident kids
this type of response from you will only
make things worse
sure their little teenage problems may
seem trivial to you as an adult with
bills and responsibilities but remember
yourself at this age your kid really
isn't okay they need your help to get
through these negative emotions so be
there shoulder to cry on listen to them
and acknowledge their feelings this way
they won't be afraid to come to you if
something bad happens they'll know that
you'll always give them the support they
need number 9
I'm so fat
yeah we all get frustrated with
ourselves sometimes whether you've
called yourself fat stupid ugly or
insert negative word here you should
really try to break this habit
especially if you're a parent a study
conducted by the University of Notre
Dame found that when parents criticize
themselves out loud with their children
nearby it can actually have a
detrimental effect on their kids
self-esteem and that's because our
parents are our role models as we're
growing up and their behavior sets an
example for us so for example when a
mother calls herself fat all the time
her daughter subconsciously learns to
view her body and appearance the same
way plus this negative self-talk does
you no good either so don't be too hard
on yourself after all nobody's perfect
number eight hurry up
[Music]
mornings seem to be every parent's most
hectic part of the day hey you got to
get the kids out of bed dressed and full
of breakfast all before the bus arrives
and of course it can be especially
difficult with teens that don't want to
get out of bed or take forever picking
out what to wear but screaming for them
to hurry up isn't the answer
psychologists and co-author of baby
minds dr. Linda acrid olo says that all
this rushing just puts unnecessary
pressure on your kid they don't need
that before they head to school where
they deal with even more problems and
stress so you may want to soften it up a
bit and definitely don't yell remind
them that their breakfast is getting
cold or there's not much left teens have
a killer appetite after all whatever you
do just try to keep a positive and
playful vibe in the morning your kid
will surely appreciate it
number seven don't be sad adolescence is
a time of emotional roller coasters
teenagers can be hyper with pure joy one
minute and then crying for seemingly no
reason the next and it's especially
difficult for parents to cope when their
kid is down in the dumps so they
reassure them by saying they'll be sad
but dr. Debbie Glasser the director of
Family Support Services at the mailman
Segal Institute for early childhood
study says that don't be phrases like
this send the message that the kids
emotions aren't valid and that it's not
okay to feel how they feel at this
particular moment if your teen is sad or
crying sit them down and try to help
them work through their feelings that is
if they're comfortable opening up
they'll feel better getting their
worries off their chest and this
heart-to-heart will only strengthen your
bond number six let me do it well it's
only natural for every parent who want
to help their kid if he or she is
seriously struggling with something but
offering direct help especially doing
something yourself instead of letting
them figure it out on their own can set
them up for failure in the future
dr. Myrna sure professor emeritus at the
Department of Psychology at Drexel
University an author of raising a
thinking child explains that if you tend
to jump in too soon you may undermine
your child's independence they'll
develop a habit of always looking to
others for answers and nobody wants that
for their kids so if you want your child
to grow up to be self-sufficient
don't be so hands-on you can however
guide them through a problem and help
them find the right solutions themselves
this way your child will grow up knowing
that everything is in their own hands
instead of naively waiting for somebody
else to come and make all their problems
disappear number five you're so
incredible psychological science
published a really interesting study on
something called inflated praise and its
effect on children with low self-esteem
for example you are good at this is
considered simple praise well you're
incredibly good at this is inflated in
one of the studies experiments 240
children drew a famous van Gogh painting
a professional painter then gave them a
note with inflated simple or of no
praise at all written on it after
receiving the note the children were
asked to choose another painting to copy
either an easy one or a difficult one
the children with low self-esteem who
had received inflated praise usually
went for the easy pictures while the
children with high self-esteem who had
received inflated praise typically chose
the difficult ones this only means that
inflated praise somehow puts even more
pressure on children with low
self-esteem as opposed to encouraging
them they start to worry about meeting
the high standards you've said again so
they're afraid to take on a challenge as
for how you should encourage your child
when they've done a good job we'll get
into that in our next point which is
number four good job good job might seem
like a sincere and harmless compliment
to someone's work or achievements but
believe it or not it's actually not that
good for your kids to hear dr. Susan
Newman a social psychologist and
best-selling author says that it's
better to focus on how your child has
achieved the result rather than just
giving them your reaction for example if
your kid drew a picture you can ask
questions like what made you go for this
color in particular or what inspired you
to add this part here asking questions
about the details and the work it took
to get the result keeps the focus on
your kid and makes them explain their
choices both of which helped their
self-confidence a lot
but great job is so generic and doesn't
encourage your children as much as you
think number three you need to set a
good example for your little brother or
sister
I remember that one if you have a teen
and they've got a younger sibling things
can get especially stressful in the
house of course every adolescent has an
extremely short fuse and their little
brother or sister can definitely set it
off but parents also like to criticize
their teens for their mistake with the
classic you need to set a good example
for the little one dr. Katherine Kersey
a professor of early childhood education
at Old Dominion University says it's
better to use phrases like your brother
or sister looks up to you or you're such
a role model for your little brother and
sister this way
you don't put an invisible burden of
being perfect on your teen shoulders
they're under enough pressure already
they don't need any more number to go
kiss Grandma
[Music]
yes from a very early age most of us are
forced to hug or kiss our relatives even
if we don't really want to and it's not
because we don't love our family it's
just that some of us aren't so
comfortable with hugging and kissing
people as others might be and forcing
your kids to do this may leave a deep
subconscious feeling that they don't
have total control over their bodies and
their display of affection
Peter Saunders founder of the National
Association for people abused in
childhood warns that children should
never be forced to do anything that
makes them uncomfortable especially when
it comes to physical contact so be sure
to always give your child a choice
asking would you like to kiss grandma
goodbye and if the answer is no don't
push it they can always do it in their
own time and number one I'm so proud of
you ah surprising isn't it yes this
completely harmless and seemingly
encouraging phrase isn't as perfect as
you thought
according to dr. Karl picker a
psychologist and author of the book
surviving your child's adolescence it's
not that great of an idea to give your
kid a blanket statement of encouragement
and that's because children may start to
feel responsible for this expressed
parental pride like they need to keep it
up because it's the only way that mom or
dad will feel good or love them hey kids
think a certain way even if it's not
true so if you feel like it might affect
your kid or it already has try to
replace this phrase with good for you
this gives the child more credit for
their achievement and puts all the focus
on them rather than on you after all
that's where it truly belongs right and
here's a bonus the phrase that will
truly trigger your teens into negative
emotions oh oh the Wi-Fi is down I don't
know when it'll be back up
now it works in your house too and so
what do you think what phrases should
never be said to teens tell us in the
comments down here below right there and
don't forget to click subscribe to stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]
you